.TH wopr 1 16/10/2007 "UvT"

.SH WOPR
WOrd PRediction

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "./wopr"

.BI "./wopr --script make_data --params filename:foo.data"

.BI "./wopr -r server2 -p ibasefile:tekst.txt.l1000.ws7.ibase,lexicon:tekst.txt.l1000.lex,timbl:'-a1 +vdb +D'"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I wopr
can run built-in commands, run
.I Timbl
experiments (if support has been compiled in) or run external
commands. Can be used as a server and process communication over
a socket.

Typical usage consists of specifying which built-in commands
to run, followed by a list of parameters. For example, to run
the Timbl server:

.nf
wopr --run server2 --params ibasefile:reuza++.ibase,timbl:"-a1"
.fi

.I Wopr
can also read in script with commands and parameters. For example,
the following script (called 'server') also runs the server:

.nf
msg: Script to run server.
params: ibasefile:giza++-nl-to-en.A3.final.train.xa3.ws7.ibase
params: lexicon:giza++-nl-to-en.A3.final.train.xa3.lex
params: ws:7
params: port:1983
params: timbl:-a1 +vdb +D +G
run: server2
.fi

And is run like this:

.nf
 wopr --script server
.fi

.SH FUNCTIONS

The following list contains a description of the functions in
.I wopr.

IN  : the parameters used by the functions.

OUT : Files written to disk.

SETS: internal parameters which are changed or added.

.TP 12
.B
timbl
Calls Timbl

.TP 12
.B
make_ibase
Creates and saves an ibase file using Timbl

.nf
IN: filename (data file)
IN: timbl (timbl parameters, quote if more than one)
OUT: filename.ibase (the saved instance base)

.fi

.TP 12
.B
run_external
Runs an external program.

.nf
IN: external program
.fi

Example:

.nf
./wopr -r run_external -p:external:"sleep 10"
.fi

.TP 12
.B
count_lines
Displays the number of lines in <filename>.

.nf
IN: filename
OUT: stdout
.fi

.TP 12
.B
dump_kv
Displays all the settings stored in 
.I wopr .

.TP 12
.B
clear_kv
Clears all the settings.

.TP 12
.B
cut
Takes the first <lines> lines from the file <filename>, and
saves them in a new file. The <filename> parameter will point to
this new file after cutting.

.nf
IN: filename
IN: lines:nn
SETS(filename): filename.clnn
OUT: filename.clnn
.fi

.TP 12
.B
flatten
Read the file <filename> and writes a new file which contains one
word per line. The <filename> parameter will point to
this new file after cutting. The <lines> parameters specifies how
many lines (i.e. words) will end up in the output file. Leaving
this parameter out will convert the whole file.

.nf
IN: filename
IN: lines:nn
SETS(filename): filename.flnn
OUT: filename.lnn
.fi

.TP 12
.B
lowercase
Read the file <filename> and writes a new file which contains the
contents of the file in lowercase. The <filename> parameter will point to
this new file after conversion.

.nf
IN: filename
SETS(filename): filename.lc
OUT: filename.lc
.fi

.TP 12
.B
window
Takes a file, and writes a new file with windowed data. The size of
the window is in the <ws> parameter. The <filename> parameter points
to the new file after processing. 

.nf
IN: filename
IN: ws:n
SETS(filename): filename.wn
OUT: filename.wn
.fi

.TP 12
.B
window_line

.nf
IN:	classify:str
IN:	timbl
OUT:	stdout
.fi

.TP 12
.B
timbl_test
Takes the file <testfile>, and tests it using
.I Timbl
with the parameters set in the <timbl> and <ibase> parameters. The output
is written to <testfile>.out.

.nf
IN:	timbl
IN:	ibasefile
IN:	testfile
OUT:	testfile.out
.fi

.TP 12
.B
lexicon
Creates a 'lexicon' from the file <filename>. The lexicon is a list of
words with their frequency in the <file>. Written in <filename>.lex. The
<lexicon> parameter will be set with this new filename.

.nf
IN:	filename
OUT:	filename.lex
.fi

.TP 12
.B
hapax
Sets the <testfile> or <trainfile> parameters to <filename>.hpxt or
<filename>.hpxt depending on the <type> parameter. It will
hapax the file according to the <hpx> parameter. Tokens with a frequency
less than the <hpx> value (taken from lexicon) will be replaced by
the string HAPAX. The lexicon is taken from the <lexicon> parameter.

.nf
IN:	filename
IN:	type:{train|test}
IN:	hpx:n
IN:	lexicon (default:filename.lex)
SETS({train|test}file):	filename.{hpx|hpxt}n
OUT:	filename.{hpx|hpxt}n
.fi

.TP 12
.B
trainfile
Sets the <filename> parameter to <trainfile>. Use this after for example
.B hapax
and before running
.B make_ibase.
This way, make_ibase will take the .hpx filename as input. If this
is not done,
.B make_ibase
will take the filename before the hapaxing.

.nf
IN:	trainfile
SETS:	filename <- trainfile
.fi

.TP 12
.B
testfile
Sets the <filename> parameter to <testfile>. See the trainfile entry.

.nf
IN:	testfile
SETS:	filename <- testfile
.fi

.TP 12
.B
window_usenet
Experimental.

.nf
IN: filename
IN: ws:n
SETS: filename.wsn
OUT: filename.wsn
.fi

.TP 12
.B
server2
Runs the server process.

.nf
IN: ibasefile:
IN: ws:n
IN: lexicon:
IN: timbl:
IN: hpx:n
IN: port:
IN: precision:
IN: unknown:
.fi

.TP 12
.B
read_a3
Read and converts a giza++ output file.

.nf
IN: filename:
OUT: filename.xa3
.fi

.SH BUGS
Not known.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2007 UvT

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Peter Berck (P.J.Berck@uvt.nl)

